# Matrix Bridge Configuration

Configure the Rocket.Chat workspace to link with your Matrix Homeserver.

{% hint style="info" %}
This configuration only applies if the Matrix Homeserver was set up following [#manual-installation](matrix-homeserver-setup/#manual-installation "mention"). This is done automatically for[#automated-installation](matrix-homeserver-setup/#automated-installation "mention").
{% endhint %}

To access this setting:

* Navigate to  _**Administration** > **Workspace** > **Settings** > **Federation > Matrix Bridge.**_
* **Enable**: Turn on to enable federation with Matrix.
* **AppService ID:** A unique identifier for the Application Service. _This is automatically generated by Rocket.Chat_
* **Homeserver Token:** A unique homeserver token to authenticate requests to Application Services.
* **App Service Token:** A unique Application Service token to authenticate requests to homeservers. _This is automatically generated by Rocket.Chat_
* **Homeserver URL:** The URL of the Matrix server you want to use as your Proxy homeserver. e.g `http://localhost:8008`
* **Homeserver Domain:** Your Matrix homeserver's name, the same as you've configured in your Matrix configuration file.
* **Bridge URL:** The URL for the Matrix bridge. It is the location you want your bridge should run.

{% hint style="warning" %}
* Make sure the port that you are using for the bridge is free in your host.
* We recommend a brand new Matrix Homeserver to be used as your Proxy homeserver.
* We strongly recommend not connecting to this Matrix Homeserver with other Matrix clients.
{% endhint %}

* **AppService User Localpart:** The bot user associated with the application service (Sometimes, it's being used to execute some actions).
* **Registration**:  Automatically generated and updated by Rocket.Chat based on all the values provided in the above settings (This file is used [to configure the Application Service](matrix-homeserver-setup/#manual-installation)).

{% hint style="info" %}
After any change is made to these settings, update the `registration.yml` file for the Application Service in `pp/matrix-federation-config` see [#manual-installation](matrix-homeserver-setup/#manual-installation "mention") . Then restart your Matrix Homeserver and Rocket.Chat Server.&#x20;
{% endhint %}
